// Copyright (c) 2004-2020 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

= MESA-2019.09

== MESA-2019.09

|===
|Version:          |MESA-2019.09
|Previous Version: |MESA-2019.06
|Date:             |2019-09-27
|Description:      |Roadmap release
|===


=== Disclaimers

The support of SparX-5/5i (all SKUs) in this release is considered to be in BETA
quality. It can be used for early access, to evaluate the features and/or start
SW integration. It is not suitable for production use, and may change
significantly in future releases.

=== SparX-5/5i limited to VSC7558 / VSC7558TSN (temporary)

The support of SparX-5/5i has been limited to the VSC7558 and VSC7558TSN
(industrial version) SKUs. This is a temporary limitation which is expected to
be removed again at the next release.

Customers targeting other SKUs, should continue their work using VSC7558 and
VSC7558TSN (all samples send out can operate as VSC7558TSN). The API will be the
same for all SKUs in the SparX-5/5i family.


=== Per Stream Filtering and Policing (PSFP) APIs added

PSFP API and implementation supporting SparX-5i has been added. Please consult
the errata sheet regarding limitations in the A0 chip revision.

The PSFP function operates on the ingress direction on flows of traffic,
classified by the Enhanced VLAN API. The PSFP function provides a gate, a filter
and a metering function. The gate is driven by a time aware calendar which
controls when the gate is open or closed. If a frame is received when the gate
is closed, it is dropped. The filter looks at the packet size, and can be
configured to drop packets larger than a given size. The meter is a dual leaky
bucket performing the policing.

PSFP was originally developed in 802.1Qci, and is now merged into 802.1Q-2018.

The new APIs are defined in the tsn.h header file and prefixed with
'mesa_psfp_'. The classification of packets is done using the Enhanced VLAN API,
found in l2.h.


=== Frame Replication and Elimination for Reliability (FRER) APIs added

FRER API and implementation supporting SparX-5i has been added.

FRER is a flow based function. FRER operating on a flow, can a) replicate the
frames in the flow, and emit them on 2 or more egress flows, b) merge replicated
flows and eliminate duplicates or c) do recovery on replicated streams (both a
and b). FRER uses a R-TAG, which carry the sequence number which is used when
eliminating replicated traffic.

The FRER specification can be found in 802.1CB-2017.

The new APIs are defined in the tsn.h header file and prefixed with
'mesa_frer_'. The classification of packets is done using the Enhanced VLAN API
found in l2.h.


=== Cut Through API added

Cut Through API and implementation supporting SparX-5i has been added.

When Cut Through is enabled the switch will (if possible) start transmitting the
frame on the egress port before it is completely received. This can provide a
better latency through the switch, but it also means that the switch will not be
able to filter out packets with CRC errors (which is why it should not be used
along with FRER). Cut Through is only possible if the egress port is running at
the same or lower speed than the ingress port.

Cut Through was specified in the 802.1Qcc drafts, but was since removed, and
never made it into 802.1Q-2018.

The API controlling this is a new attribute in `mesa_qos_port_queue_conf_t`
found in the `qos.h` header.


=== Frame Preemption API added

Frame Preemption API and implementation supporting SparX-5i has been added.
Please consult the errata sheet regarding limitations in the A0 chip revision.

The Frame Preemption functions provides an Express MAC (EMAC) and a Preemptable
MAC (PMAC). When a large frame is being transmitted on the PMAC, it can be
preempted (put on pause) by a frame in the EMAC, which can go out before exiting
frames is completely transmitted. Once the EMAC is empty, the PMAC will continue
transmitting the remaining fragment.

By using this, a lower latency through the network can be achieved for traffic
associated to the express queue.

Frame Preemption was originally developed in 802.1Qbu, which is now merged into
802.1Q-2018. The Ethernet part is described in 802.3br.

The Frame Preemption APIs are prefixed with 'mesa_qos_fp_' found in the qos.h
header file.


=== Support in MEBA for PCB134 and PCB135 added

Microchip Ethernet Board API (MEBA) how has support for PCB134 and PCB135 which
are both based on SparX-5i.

Customer building their own boards are encouraged to use these MEBA
implementations as a starting point when adding support for new boards.

The supported features include: port maps, SFP mapping and LEDs.

Fan, PoE, ToD and SyncE support is not implemented for PCB134 and PCB135 in this
release.


=== MESA-DOC added (BETA)

This release introduces mesa-doc, which will collect all the API documentation in
one place. MESA-Doc is a html file located in the root of the source archive; to
read it, simply open it using Chrome/Firefox browser.

In this release, MESA-DOC has replaced the AN1007, ug1069, ug1070 and Doxygen.
Beside this content, it also offers a lot of new content.


=== Time Aware Scheduler (TAS / TS) headers added

TAS preliminary headers are included, but no implementation is available at this
point. These headers may change when the implementation is added.

TAS was renamed to Enhancements for Scheduled Traffic (ST) before merged into
the 802.1Q-2018 standard. It goes under both names. TAS/ST was originally
developed in 802.1Qbv, which is now merged into 802.1Q-2018.

