// Copyright (c) 2004-2020 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

= L3

The L3 API provides facilities to configure IP-routing between two or more L2
broadcast domains. The API supports unicast routing of both IPv4 and IPv6
traffic, and it support routing between VLANs.

See link:../../../include/microchip/ethernet/switch/api/l3.h.html[l3.h] for more details.

*NOTE:* All L3 functionality depends on the `mscc-sym:CAP(L3)` capability.

== Configuration entities

The Layer 3 functionality is build around some global configuration and three
tables: router-legs (`rleg`), longest-prefix-match (`LPM`) and neighbour-table
(ARP). Following is the purpose of these configurations entities.

=== Global configuration

Global configuration is required to enable routing and to configure the MAC
addressing schema to use for the router legs.

See `mscc-sym:mesa_l3_common_set` for more details.

=== Router legs

The purpose of L3 routing is to forward IP frames from one L3 interface to
another. The router legs represents these L3 interfaces. A router leg is
connected L2 broadcast domain, typically a VLAN. A router leg has a MAC-address
and a set of other attributes to enable/disable IPv4/IPv6 routing and VRRP
settings. If an IP frame is received on a VLAN which has an associated router
leg, and the destination MAC of the frame matches the MAC address of the router
leg, then the frame is candidate for being routed.

See `mscc-sym:mesa_l3_rleg_add` for more details.

//NOTE: The router leg table should be synchronized with the interface table in
*NOTE:* The router leg table should be synchronized with the interface table in
the operating systems IP stack. When a L3 interface is added in the operating
system, a corresponding router leg should be created. When an IP address is
assigned to a given L3 interface in the IP stack, then the corresponding
interface route should be installed in the `LPM` table.

=== Routing table

The routing table (also called the longest prefix match table, as this is what
it does) is where the actual routing takes place. If an IP frame qualifies for
routing (see the section on router legs) then the destination IP address is
matched against the `LPM` table. The best match (the longest prefix match) in
the `LPM` table is used to route the frame. If no match is found in the `LPM`
table, then the frame is forwarded to the CPU. The `LPM` table should include
network routes, host routes and interface routes. An interface route is a route
representing the configured IP range of the interface, and with the destination
configured should zero - which will cause the frame to be send to the CPU.

See `mscc-sym:mesa_l3_route_add` for more details.

*NOTE:* A `LPM` entry can only be routed in HW if the destination of the route is
installed in the neighbour table. If this is not the case, then the frame will
be forwarded to the CPU, which should perform the ARP/NDP resolution, route the
packet in SW and install the neighbour in HW for future use.

=== Neighbour table

This table is used to map IP address to `(mac, rleg)` tuples, the `mac` address
is the L2 address of the next-hop, and the `rleg` is a pointer to the L2 domain
of the next-hop (VLAN).  When a packet is being routed in the `LPM` table, the
output is a "next-hop" IP address, this "next-hop" IP address must be translated
to a MAC-address and a VLAN before it can be L2 forwarded. If a `LPM` entry does
not have a corresponding neighbour entry, then the packet will be forwarded to
the CPU.

See `mscc-sym:mesa_l3_neighbour_add` for more details.

*NOTE:* The neighbour table should be synchronized with the ARP/NDP table of the
operating systems IP stack.

